Hello everyone, our group looked at VAR data in the premier league
to see if there was any biases in the VAR calls
that impacted the position of teams in the Premier League table
All of our visualizations our linked to our main scatter plot
which plots the net goals scored, which is the total goals scored minus goals conceded
and the net subjective score which indicated VAR calls for minus VAR calls against
Mousing over any point on the scatter plot will provide information about the team and the data point
The color of the point on the scatter plot represents the difference between the first season in 2019 versus the second season in 2020
The greener the point in the scatter plot will suggest they had a better finish in the 2020 season versus the 2019 season
and the more red the point is in the scatter plot will suggest that they had a worse finish
The two bar charts on either side of the scatter plot represent number of favorable var decisions on the left and the number of unfavorable var decisions on the right
Brushing over any point, or group of points, on the scatter plot will also highlight the corresponding bar on these charts
Additionally, brushing over any bar will highlight the same team’s bar on the other bar chart
The bottom two bar charts represents a count of favorable decisions at home games on the left and away games on the right
These charts are also linked to the scatterplot and will only represent data for teams that are currently selected on the scatterplot
This allows users to select a team or teams in the scatter plot, view their VAR decisions for and against, and look to see if there is any bias towards them at home or away games